have you ever spent hours looking at the
screen trying to figure out hmm what
should i post on social media well i can
guarantee you that you can spend as
little as 60 minutes and planning out
your social media content for the entire
week and it won't be nearly as hard as
you imagined hey everyone i'm neil patel
and today i'm going to break down how to
plan one week of social media content in
60 minutes including tools and hacks
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
according to statista over 3.6 billion
people use social media and is projected
to reach 4.41 billion by 2025 today
we're going to be focused on how to plan
your content creating content like video
and long-form reports can take longer
but
just knowing that and knowing when you
should post each of your content pieces
should give you a huge advantage and
just improve your efficiency overall
before we get into planning this process
itself here are some things that i do
that helps me get to the beginning of my
week without necessarily creating any
form of content apart from writing
captions and even scheduling things up
for video content every month you should
come up with a list of video concepts
that you're going to record videos about
literally that's it because i post
videos roughly three times a week i
typically create a list of 16 video
concepts not 3 16 which roughly covers 5
weeks worth of content
then you need to spend time outlining as
a list let's say bullet points for each
video
that way you know that you can just rip
off and just start discussing those
bullet points in the video it's
important to include any database things
like stats or research because that
shows that your authority which helps
you with overall followers credibility
and best of all it helps you with google
rankings in the long run
then i'll spend part of the day let's
say my morning sometimes the entire
afternoon just recording videos
there's a team that helps you finalize
these videos and get some ready for
youtube and optimize them so i don't
even have to worry about that but look i
know not everyone can do that if i were
you bust out your phone record upload to
youtube
not that hard and here's a cool thing
when you're uploading videos to these
social platforms you can schedule them
in advance
now for image content i do something
similar that i mentioned above
and i come up with a list of concepts
that are worth going over in social
media over the next week or two
i'll plan the content for my image
carousels quotes even family pictures
literally i'll be like
this week i need to create a family
picture more so take one
now when you do this and you're creating
all this content you don't have to hire
a designer you don't spend a lot of
money you can just use tools like canva
adobe spark or picmonkey to create those
images modify them the quotes get them
up and if you want to move really fast
you should have a few templates with
your brands your colors the fonts that
you use in advance so you can just whip
in the text for let's say things like
quotes
that way you can focus on content itself
instead of having to figure out the
basics like design each and every single
time
now out of curiosity leave a comment
below and let me know what tool you use
for your images for social media now i
don't always use one tool sometimes i
use adobe photoshop or i use let's say
canva but i'm curious to see what you
use
the bottom line is you should keep a
database of ideas and pre-conceptualized
topics that way whether you're sick or
procrastinating you just don't feel like
you want to execute
boom you can go into your vault pull one
out post it and you're off into the
races
now let's dive into the planning process
step one list out all the content types
that you can commit to publishing that
week
share a blog post create some content
maybe a live video story shorts podcast
promotion maybe database information
posts or industry research heck you can
just do it ask me anything right ama or
you can just bust out your phone and
record a video or do an image carousel
maybe even use a third-party quote make
sure you cite the third party in that
quote don't say it was yours when it
wasn't
you can do video testimonials client
success stories podcast announcement
maybe a quiz poll
contests meme collabs as you can see the
list really does go on and on heck you
can even just do things like a q a
session or interview or a day in the
life of yourself
step two match the content type with the
social media channels that you're
willing to post on
you can use this spreadsheet to do this
part or even just a pen and paper heck i
write a lot of things down just on my
ipad right bust out the ipad pencil and
write it down in notes
now if you're not sure which social
network is good for you with all this
content type instagram is good for you
if you have visual and image based
content like carousels picture of your
day to day quotes shorter videos stories
personal you know podcast cuts and
you're just doing a voiceover facebook
works similar to instagram but you can
also share blog content and other forms
of content that may be hosted somewhere
else like that maybe it's direct links
your podcast episode or even direct
links to your blog post but that's what
works well on facebook they usually
don't necessarily like links as much but
similar to instagram that's what they
like
linkedin is a little bit different you
can do a lot better if you post a mix of
the following content types long form
written posts image carousels breaking
down complex concepts into really simple
bite-sizeable information that's really
digestible shorter videos they love they
have a cap 10 minutes on a video podcast
cuts work well shorter written posts
with impactful quotes whether created by
you or third parties if you use a third
party what do you got to do
cite the source
now let's look at twitter twitter is
more conducive to diversity and apart
from stories you can pretty much post
anything
that isn't long form from images to
video to external links twitter pretty
much allows you to share anything openly
step three assign the days and social
platforms in which you'll be posting
each type of content on i recommend that
you publish blog posts a minimum of
twice a week it depends on how important
your blog is to your audience and the
type of knowledge you're sharing but
people love it and it gets tons of loyal
engagement i recommend that you create
video content at least once a week i
recommend that you go either live or
produce video content like i'm doing
here and uploading it or interviews or
video collaborations with other creators
that way their followers see your stuff
and your followers see their stuff
step four create a rough outline of what
each post should talk about and look
like
if you don't have a database of
pre-conceptualized content pieces
all you have to do is this step to
create a list of what each post should
look like remember that now you're just
planning so be creative and don't feel
like you need to worry about how you're
gonna do with the images or videos or
how many likes you're gonna get
step five
write up your captions
now that you know each post and what
it'll look like you need to start
writing your captions keep in mind that
you'll never do things perfectly well
and that's okay be simple to the point
and add in your personality just like i
do with my videos
don't just be technical or bland or
boring like this
spice it up be entertaining be human
step six schedule your content using any
one of the tools that you like from
hootsuite to buffer there's so many
tools out there this part can cut a lot
of time so that way you don't have to
log into social media each and every
single hour of the day and if you do
that you'll be good to go if you need
help with your social media marketing
boosting your engagement check out my ad
agency np digital if you have any
questions leave a comment below if you
enjoyed this video like it share it tell
people about it thank you for watching